# Modules

The FarmData2 modules

- farm_fd2 - the main FarmData2 module.
- farm_fd2_examples - the FarmData2 examples module.
- farm_fd2_school - the FarmData2 school module.

- cypress - cypress configuration shared by all modules.
- cypress.config.js - cypress configuration shared by all modules.
  - these are sym linked inside each module directory.

## Module Structure

Inside each of the above module directories there are the following directories and files:

- src - contains all source code for the module
- cypress - symbolic link to the `cypress` directory in modules
  - all modules share same configuration for cypress
- cypress.config.js - symbolic link to the `cypress.config.js` file in modules
  - all modules share same configuration for cypress
- vite.config.js - the vite build configuration for the module.
- dist - distribution files for the module
  - generated by the vite build
- src/entrypoints - all of the entrypoints (i.e. pages) in the module.
  - one sub-directory for each entry point.
  - entry point names must be unique within a module.
    - created with bin/addEntrypoint.bash
      - App.vue - code for the entrypoint (you edit this).
      - \*.cy.js - tests for the entrypoint (you create these)
      - index.html - scaffolding (auto generated by bin/addEntrypoint.bash)
      - main.js - scaffolding (auto generated)
  - module - scaffolding (auto edited by bin/addEntrypoint.bash)
  - public - scaffolding
  - shared - scaffolding
  - stores - used by Vue pinia store
  - composer.json - Drupal configuration information (only for farm_fd2)

## Adding an new Entry Point

- ensure you have no uncommitted changes
- switch to `development` branch
- run `addEntrypoint.bash`
  - Will create a new feature branch
  - Switch to that branch
  - Add boilerplate and starter code to it
  - Run some basic tests against the added code
    - Note: running test script also builds the module containing the new entry point.
- Edit `App.vue` to implement the entry point.
- Add `\*.cy.js` files to test the new entry point.

## Entry Point Conventions

Document where these things are in the code somehow.

- an example in the Examples module?

- all use the `fd2-mobile.css` stylesheet.

  - add `<style>` to the `App.vue` for entry point specific styles.

- Submit button is initially enabled.

  - On click
    - validity styling is shown
    - disabled if
      - any data is invalid
      - any required data is missing
    - Submitting ... banner appears while submitting.
    - Success banner appears when submitted is complete, stays for 2 seconds.
    - Error banner appears if there is an error, stays for 5 seconds.

- Errors are thrown by the `lib.js` file when doing submission (see `tray_seeding/lib.js`).

  - The main `App.vue` then catches the error and displays an error banner with a simplified message for the page.
  - The `lib.js` should print more detailed information to the console for debugging.

- Components indicate errors by emitting an `error` event with the error message.
  - A `v-on:error="(msg) => showErrorToast('Title', msg)"` listener should be attached to any component that emits an error event. The title should be generalized to the entrypoint. The component will have printed more detailed information to the console for debugging. See `tray_seeding/App.vue` for an example.

## farmOS Permissions Checking

A component can check the permissions of the logged in farmOS user using appropriate function in `farmosUtil.js`.

If a permission needs to be checked that is not yet supported it can be added to the `$perms` array in the `permissions` function in `modules/farm_fd2/src/module/Controller/FD2_Controller.php` file.

## Testing

- use `bin/test.bash` (see its docs).

- Unit test vs e2e tests.

- use watch:fd2 by default and just run in live farmOS???

  - or should we use the dev server?
  - point to another document that discusses the use of the dev and preview servers.

- Any `it` with an `intercept` should include `{ retries: 4 }` to tolerate some of the flake that appears to go with `cy.intercept`.

Best practice is to [reset the database state before tests are run](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/best-practices#State-reset-should-go-before-each-test). Doing this before every test or even at the start of every file adds significantly to the runtime of the test suite. FarmData2 compromises by resetting the database to the DB that was most recently installed (i.e. using `installDB.bash`) before each test run. A test run is one cypress command (e.g. as is done by `test.bash --comp`). Any test that absolutely requires a clean database (i.e. cannot tolerate changes made by prior tests) can reset it in its `before` hook using the following code:

```Javascript
  before(() => {
    cy.task('initDB');
  });
```

Use: `cy.task('log', 'message')` to log messages to the console.
Use: `cy.task('logObject', obj)` to log an object to the console.

### Unit Testing

Write code for submission of the form to farmOS in the lib.js file and unit test it.

- all tests should clean up after themselves.

### E2E Testing

Test: There will typically be 4 broad categories of tests. The lists below are not intended to be prescriptive or exhaustive.

- `*.content.e2e.cy.js` - ensure that the content of the form is correct.
  - All the components exist.
  - All labels and fields (not tested by components) are correct.
  - Default values are correct.
  - Required items are marked required.
  - Submit/Reset/etc are initially in the correct state.
  - Correct increment / decrement buttons exist.
  - etc...
- `*.behavior.e2e.cy.js` - ensure that the form behaves correctly
  - validity styling is shown at appropriate times
  - Submit/Reset/etc are in the correct state as form changes.
    - E.g. Submit is disabled when the form is invalid
    - E.g. Submit is reenabled when the form becomes valid
  - reset clears the form to default values.
  - form controls work:
    - E.g. any `+` to add new items go to correct url (if not already tested by the component)
    - E.g. computed values are computed correctly.
    - Check props that affect component behavior are correct.
      - E.g. increment / decrement values are correct
  - etc...
- `*.permissions.*.e2e.cy.js` - ensure that correct content is shown based on permissions.
  - Create a separate test for each permission that is checked.
  - `+` buttons are not shown unless user has permission to edit vocabulary.
  - etc...
- `*.submit.e2e.cy.js` - ensure that the form submits correctly
  - records are created in the database
  - Submitting banner appears and disappears
  - Success banner appears and disappears
  - Error banner appear and disappears
  - Sticky parts of form remain when submit is complete.
  - etc...

### Testing Gotchas

- Clear fields before typing in them.
- Blur the final field that was modified before taking an action (E.g. Submit / Reset)

## Entry point structure

- Main container is a Bootstrap-Vue-Next [_BCard_](https://bootstrap-vue-next.github.io/bootstrap-vue-next/docs/components/card)

- BOIL THIS DOWN TO A MINIMAL EXAMPLE...

```JavaScript
<script setup>
import dayjs from 'dayjs';
import CropSelector from '@comps/CropSelector/CropSelector.vue';
import * as uiUtil from '@libs/uiUtil/uiUtil.js';
</script>

<template>
  <BToaster />
  <BCard
    bg-variant="light"
    header-tag="header"
  >
    <template #header>
      <h2 class="text-center">Tray Seeding</h2>
    </template>

    <BForm
      @submit="submit"
      @reset="reset"
    >
      <!-- Seeding Date -->
      <BFormGroup
        id="ts-date-group"
        label-for="ts-date"
        label-cols="auto"
        label-align="end"
        content-cols="auto"
      >
        <template v-slot:label>Date:<sup class="text-danger">*</sup> </template>
        <BFormInput
          id="ts-date"
          data-cy="ts-date"
          type="date"
          v-model="form.seedingDate"
          aria-describedby="date-help"
          required
        />
        <BFormText id="date-help">Date seeding occurred.</BFormText>
      </BFormGroup>

      <!-- Crop Selection -->
      <CropSelector
        required
        helpText="Select seeded crop."
        v-model:selected="form.crop"
        v-on:ready="createdCount++"
        v-on:error="
          (msg) =>
            uiUtil.showToast('Network Error', msg, 'top-center', 'danger', 5)
        "
      />

      <!-- Submit and Reset Buttons -->

      <!-- TODO: MAKE SO CAN'T SUBMIT AGAIN UNTIL A CHANGE HAS BEEN MADE -->
      <!-- POSSIBLY JUST CLEAR THE LOCATION OR THE CROP? -->
      <BRow>
        <BCol cols="8">
          <BButton
            type="Create"
            class="form-control"
            variant="primary"
            >Submit</BButton
          >
        </BCol>
        <BCol cols="4">
          <BButton
            type="Reset"
            class="form-control"
            variant="danger"
            >Reset</BButton
          >
        </BCol>
      </BRow>
    </BForm>
  </BCard>

  <div
    data-cy="page-loaded"
    v-show="false"
  >
    {{ pageDoneLoading }}
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      form: {
        seedingDate: dayjs().format('YYYY-MM-DD'),
        crop: null,
      },
      createdCount: 0,
    };
  },
  methods: {
    submit() {
      console.log(this.form);
    },
    reset() {
      this.seedingDate = dayjs().format('YYYY-MM-DD');
      this.form.crop = null;
    },
  },
  computed: {
    pageDoneLoading() {
      return this.createdCount == 2;
    },
  },
  created() {
    this.createdCount++;
  },
};
</script>
```

Every entry point has a `<BToaster />` element as its first element.

- The `BToaster` allows alert/info/success/error messages to be displayed.

  - A message is displayed for 5 seconds on any error.
  - A submitting message is displayed when the form is submitted. This is dismissed when the submit was successful or an error occurred.
  - A success message is displayed for 1 second if the submit is successful.

  - Every FarmData2 component emits an `error` event with a message when an error occurs.
  - The entrypoint then must have an `on-error` handler that displays the Toast.

```JavaScript
v-on:error="(msg) => showToast('Network Error', msg, 'top-center', 'danger', 5)"
```

- Component / element naming:

  - Every component / element referenced in css or a test gets and `id` and a `data-cy`.
  - Values for the `id` and `data-cy` use `kabob-case`.

- Values for placement and variant should be documented by pointing to the Bootstrap-Vue-Next documentation

- Every entry point will import the `uiUtil` module

- All components are contained in a Bootstrap-Vue-Next [_Form_](https://bootstrap-vue-next.github.io/bootstrap-vue-next/docs/components/form) element.

  - Ideally all components will be FarmData2 components that wrap the Bootstrap-Vue-Next components to simplify their use in FD2.

- Every entry point contains some essential code that facilitates testing.

Every entry point has a data element with at least a `form`, a `validity` and a `createdCount` element:

- form contains values for each form element and are v-modeled to props.
- `validity` contains the validity of each form element and are set by `valid` event handlers.
  - all should be `null` to start.
  - used to determine if the form can be submitted.
  - also contains a `show` attribute bound to the `show-validity` prop
    - set to true to have component styled to show validity.
- createdCount is used to track when the entry point is ready to be used in tests.

```JavaScript
data() {
  return {
    form: {
      ...,
    },
    validity: {
      show: false,
      ...
    }
    createdCount: 0,
  };
},
```

The form will have an `isValid()` computed property that uses the `validity` values to set the `show-validity` prop of all of the components and to enable/disable the submit button.

Every API call made in created must increment `createdCount` when finished.

```JavaScript
created() {

  // once promise from API call resolves...
  this.createdCount++;
},
```

Every FarmData2 component emits a `ready` event when it is ready to be used in tests.

- Every component used must have a `v-on` handler for this event.

  - This handler increments the `createdCount`.

- Props that the entry point uses to affect the component state should be `v-model`ed to the data in `data.form`

```JavaScript
<CropSelector
  required
  helpText="Select seeded crop."
  v-model:selected="form.crop"
  v-on:ready="createdCount++"
  v-on:error="
    (msg) =>
      uiUtil.showToast('Network Error', msg, 'top-center', 'danger', 5)
  "
/>
```

Every entry point has a computed property that indicates when all API calls and components are ready.

```JavaScript
pageDoneLoading() {
  return this.createdCount == 2;
},
```

Every entry point template ends with the following `<div>` that uses the `pageDoneLoading()` property to indicate that the page is ready for testing.

```JavaScript
  <div
    data-cy="page-loaded"
    v-show="false"
  >
    { pageDoneLoading }}
  </div>
```

Cypress tests use `cy.waitForPage()` to wait for the entry point to fully load before running tests.

```JavaScript
describe('Sample test.', () => {
  it('Sample test.', () => {
    // Login if running in live farmOS.
    cy.login('admin', 'admin');
    // Go to the desired entry point.
    cy.visit('fd2/tray_seeding/');
    // Wait for everything to be ready before testing.
    cy.waitForPage();

    // Entry point is now fully loaded...
  });
});
```

- Include the following CSS in an entrypoint to optimize the entry point for mobile. This hides and reduces the space required for some of the farmOS UI elements. It reduces margins and borders to increase screen real estate.

```CSS
<style>
@import url('@css/fd2-mobile.css');
</style>
```

## Technical Build Details

- both an entry_point.html and an index.html
  - identical.
  - entry_point.html allows vite to put css for SPC in its on dir.
  - index.html allows us to access page using the same url on the dev/prev server as in farmOS.
